How did we end up
in this position?
What choice did we have?
Roroa's busy turning slave
traders into civil servants.
Believe me, she's not happy.
She's got her hands
full issuing licenses
and dealing with complaints.
Juna doesn't have
free time with her show,
and Aisha wanted to concentrate
on her martial arts training--
[LISCIA] That's not what
I'm talking about!
I meant how did all of us end
up on this crazy road trip?
That's just how
things worked out.
When I said I was
going into town,
Serina insisted that I take
Owen and Carla along with us
to serve as our escorts.
And you had a
pretty genius idea.
Even as a ragtag
group of adventurers,
we do kinda look like we
belong together, right?
If you wanted to blend in more,
you could have worn
that student uniform
like you did last time.
And given the way
Owen's dressed,
we could've said he
was your instructor.
You are actually getting trained
by him in martial arts.
You're one to talk.
If you had dressed more
like an adventurer,
we'd look like a
party, except for...
What did I miss?
Why're you both looking at me?
Carla would have
stood out regardless.
That's true.
Aren't you being a little cruel?
I mean, you're
dressed as a maid.
It's not as if I picked this
outfit because I thought
it'd be a good costume!
If it wasn't for
Serina's orders,
I'd be wearing my armor instead.
Carla. You're our friend,
and you always will be.
So when Serina's not
around, don't hesitate
to speak freely.
Good call.
[CARLA]
You want me to speak freely,
but I can't decide
how I should dress?
Sire--I mean, Kazuya,
are you positive you want
to continue going this way?
Yes, I am.
But if we head down there...
Oh. Now I understand.
You're right.
Eventually, we'll all
arrive in the old slums.
And if I may speak frankly,
that's not the sort of place
I'd ever wish for you
or Liscia to see in person.
It's a den of crime.
Home to a bunch of low-lifes.
In the past, but not anymore.
How is it different now?
It'd be quicker if you
saw for yourself.
[SOUMA]
What do you think?
[LISCIA]
Uh, well, it's a lot different
from what I had pictured,
so I guess you could
say I am surprised.
Meaning what?
Meaning it's supposed
to be dark, gloomy,
musty, and dangerous
in this part of town.
At least, as far as
what I've been told.
Hard to believe these
are the kingdom's slums.
Nope! You're thinking
of the old slums.
Way different from how
you remember, huh?
We did our best to get
everything in shape here
by tackling the
sanitation problem.
The sanitation problem?
That was part of your
big plan to improve
the city, right?
Was reworking all these
buildings a part of that plan
as well?
We rebuilt the old structures.
Now they allow air
and sunlight in.
While we were at it,
we arrested criminals
and stopped the drug trade.
So we aired the place
out in that sense, as well.
[LISCIA] Uh, Carla, did Souma
just casually mention
he completely removed
crime from the slums?
He did, he did.
Afterwards, we had the
residents move into all
the new houses we had built.
They're small and cramped,
but they're free.
Additionally, by employing
the residents to help
keep the city clean,
they get paid and maintain
sanitation at once.
You've been keeping busy.
Maybe too busy?
It is hard work,
but a lot of fun, too.
Getting to rebuild the city
and fashion the country
how I want it.
And if as a result the people
smile more, where's the harm?
[LISCIA]
Agreed.
But if there's anything
I can do, you be sure
to let me know.
Of course.
I'm relying on you.
I've gotta say, this is
a far cry from the slums
that used to be here.
Wherever there's grime,
decay follows,
and then pathogens are
more likely to take hold.
What are "pathogens"?
It sounds odd, but they're
an infinite number
of these tiny creatures.
Even though they're
invisible to the naked eye,
they live in the air, soil,
water, everywhere else.
I just told you,
you can't see them!
But they're powerful
enough to make food spoil
and cause illness.
We can only view
their influence.
Wait! Now I get it!
So, that's the reason you
recommend that we all
gargle and we wash our hands?
You got it.
I'm a little confused.
So, pathogens,
they cause diseases?
I believe whatever Kazuya
tells us about them.
It's not a question of whether
or not they accept my word.
Since they solve all their
problems with magic,
what can I do?
In this world, medicine
and hygiene haven't made
significant advances.
Probably because light
elemental magic has such
a widespread presence.
When it's been cast, it gives
you the ability to heal,
and can treat even
the most serious wounds.
But it does have
certain drawbacks:
Like not being able to treat
elderly patients' infections
and injuries, since their
natural ability to heal
is diminished.
Treatments for
diseases are available.
But the market is overrun
with drugs made from
dubious ingredients, and
questionable folk remedies.
When I started tackling
the sanitation problem.
I knew I had to do something
about the health crisis
as well.
First things first,
I need to make them realize
pathogens do exist.
[LISCIA] The question is how do
you get people to acknowledge
something they can't see?
[SOUMA]
Some already can.
Or more specifically, a certain
race of people in the world.
Those people know
that germs exist.
Thanks to an extra
eye unique to them.
It lends them a kind
of enhanced perception
and the ability to see things
other people cannot.
[CARLA]
An extra eye.
It sounds like you're talking
about the three-eyed race.
I'm surprised they
agreed to work with you.
I've heard their kind
shuns contact with anyone
from outside their clan.
Their isolation
seems self-imposed.
Most likely because of
how they view the world.
Remember, they can tell
whether something
is sanitary or not.
Imagine. If you saw
germs everywhere,
you'd probably
avoid others, too.
They must think we're
disease-ridden freaks!
Well, that's certainly
one way of putting it.
Long story short, the three-eyed
race knew pathogens were real.
As well as the fact that
they cause ailments
light magic can't treat.
So, using their vision
and their insight,
they developed their
own brand of medicine.
Their research into
diseases is advanced.
Compared to the
rest of the world,
they're centuries
ahead in medicine.
Wait. Could that be the
reason the three-eyed race
has such a long lifespan?
How old are we talking about?
You know how humans
and beastmen only live
to be around 60 years of age?
Well, the three-eyed
race's average lifespan
is well over 80 years.
[BOTH gasp]
Liscia is correct.
Introducing hygiene has
extended their lifespan.
It's like a shield for health!
Right.
I've set up talks to
ask for their help,
and commissioned them
to make a device.
Once it's complete,
this object will allow
the other races the
ability to see germs
and microorganisms
for themselves.
Amazing!
[OWEN]
That's our Kazuya, all right!
Well, we had them
back in my world.
Called 'em "microscopes."
A "microscope"?
Yeah.
By putting lenses together,
it can make small objects
appear larger.
Because of these,
I was able to prove to everyone
what the three-eyed race
said was true.
And that's not all.
Thanks to their sight, they have
already made antibiotics.
Another strange new word.
I'll skip the explanation,
since it's complicated,
but they're a substance
that inhibits the growth
of pathogens.
[LISCIA]
So it's a medicine?
Yeah.
Turns out they just
call it "medicine" too.
But that gets confusing.
So I decree that it shall be
known as three-eyedine.
Because it's a type of medicine
made by the three-eyed race.
Three-eyedine, what do
you mean it's able to inhibit
the growth of germs?
As in, the spread, too?
It's a wonder drug
against diseases,
but that's only
putting it mildly.
It can be used to prevent
epidemics as well as keeping
open wounds from festering.
You said stop epidemics?
It's really powerful
enough to do that?
Since the three-eyed race
can see these germs,
they're also able to help
find a way of stopping them.
Well? Could it be mass produced?
Liscia?
This is important.
This could even help us
to stop epidemics.
There's no mage who can do that.
There's not much available yet,
but we are ramping
up our production.
Perfection!
Good news is,
the three-eyed race is now
cooperating with us,
and additionally,
we won't hold anything
back when it comes to
the medical research.
Our biggest struggle so
far is the small number
of gelmedics available,
which three-eyedine
production is dependent on.
Gelmedics?
[SOUMA]
Kind of a subspecies of gelins,
which can survive in
unsanitary environments.
Before getting refined,
three-eyedine
is extracted from it.
Thanks to Tomoe's help,
there has been an increase
in gelmedics.
[LISCIA]
Hold on.
Aren't gelins more plantlike
than animal-like?
But Tomoe can talk to them?
Apparently, communication
is a little bit murky.
Still, she's had some luck.
In fact, she's discovered
a little about their ideal
living conditions.
[LISCIA] Feels like our little
sister's the one teaching us.
Isn't that the truth?
[spraying]
[HILDE laughing]
Sterilize the unsanitary!
There you are!
[laughs]
And some more over here!
This woman is clearly
deranged, Kazuya.
Uh, what's that
weirdo doing exactly?
This is just normal
behavior for her.
You know this psycho?
Doctor Hilde Norg.
as you can see,
she's three-eyed.
On top of that,
she has a high degree
of medical knowledge and skills,
even by the standards
of her people.
She's a doctor?
[SOUMA]
Same old Hilde, I see.
[HILDE]
Huh?
And who are you?
Oh, right. Sorry.
Oh. Well if it
isn't His Majesty.
I thought you were just
some sorta vagabond.
[SOUMA laughs]
Introductions are in order.
These two are...
Oh, I know.
That's the princess,
and that's the former air
force general's daughter,
in a rather embarrassing
outfit, I might add.
Hey, are you familiar
with my friend Owen?
I would rather be boiled
alive than know a man
of his filthy stature, ugh.
Just who're you calling
filthy, you elite snob?
Try and make a move,
you musclebound freak.
So tell me something, Hilde,
what is it that has brought
you out here today?
Leave the populace
unsupervised for long,
pretty soon they
get filthy again.
I come by regularly
to offer health tips
and sanitize.
[SOUMA] That reminds me,
where's your partner?
Is he not with you?
He is not my partner,
is that quite clear?
Anyway, Brad is wandering
around somewhere.
He's always saying
how he'd rather treat
a stray dog than filthy,
overgrown pigs.
Or some sort of nonsense.
[SOUMA]
Sounds like typical Brad.
[HILDE] King, would you mind
talking to him for me?
He's always making me
lecture his junior students.
Who's this Brad?
Full name's Brad Jocker,
and he's a doctor, too.
Also healthcare reformist,
just like Hilde.
So is he three-eyed as well?
He's not.
A young human, actually,
and he is decent
at his trade, too.
But his personality
could use a little work.
Pardon.
Um, are you even
listening to me?
Your Majesty?
Please Forgive me, Hilde.
I will speak with him.
Now then, what brings you
this far from the castle?
Oh.
Just checking on the
job training center.
I put Ginger in charge and
wanted to see how it's going.
[GIRL A]
Goodbye, Miss San!
[GIRL B]
See you tomorrow!
Have a nice day, everyone.
Be good!
Thank you for coming
by the school to see us,
Your Majesty.
Hey, San.
Where's Ginger?
[SAN] Master Ginger.
King Souma is here for you.
Your Majesty!
I told you, no need
to be so formal.
Oh! The princess is here?
H-Hi, um...
M-My name is Ginger Ca-Camus,
and it's such an a-amazing
honor to meet you, Highness!
You're sure stuttering
more than usual today.
Behind me, that's Carla Vargas.
This man is Owen Jabana.
--And that's--
--I know Doctor Hilde.
She's always stopping by to
give free medical checkups
to the school children.
[SOUMA]
Hm?
[HILDE] Yeah, only 'cause
I can't stand seeing
their grubby little hands.
I'm going to spray over there.
Give me a holler
when you're finished.
I believe some went to play
in that direction, there.
[HILDE]
Yeah, yeah, I got it.
I hear you've been
teaching children to read,
write, and do math here.
[CAMUS]
Not just the little ones.
Adults are learning, as well.
Adults, too?
There are many in the
kingdom who've never had
an education.
Days, we teach kids,
and the adults at night,
after they've finished
all their labors.
Is that right?
I really had no idea.
[CAMUS] We plan to eventually
offer other lessons as well.
Isn't that right, sire?
Yeah. There's tons.
Including training for
civil engineers as well as
adventurers who
explore dungeons,
and lessons on medical
techniques from Hilde.
That's quite the wide
variety of subjects.
The academic research in
this world is pretty narrow
and mostly focuses on
magic and monsters, right?
Thing is, hidden within
studies that are outside
the mainstream, there's
tremendous potential
waiting to be found.
When you master a field,
no matter the subject,
you're the best.
By becoming number one,
you also become the Only One.
And those Only Ones are who
you want to nurture, right?
Yes, but first off, we need
to do whatever it takes
to raise the education
of the entire kingdom.
What's the center's status?
Sounds like things are well.
Oh, they are.
Attendance is way up,
and the school lunch program
Your Majesty suggested
has been very popular.
I've never heard of a school
lunch program before.
It's a system I introduced
from my homeland.
If you're a student going
here and under 12,
then you're able to
eat lunch for free.
Wow.
How wonderful!
That will be a huge help
for poor households.
If they keep studying hard,
there's a good chance
in the future,
they'll be able to escape
from a life of poverty.
I'm afraid to say our
adult attendance,
on the other hand,
is rather poor.
Basically, their reasoning
is why should they learn
mathematics or be literate
if they've lived this long
without any need?
It's my job to help
them see why.
So leave that part to me.
I'll come up with something.
[CAMUS]
Thank you, sire.
All righty then.
Now that we've confirmed
all is coming along
nicely here,
on to the next stop.
Where are we headed?
Huh? Didn't I mention
the reason for our trip?
No, you didn't.
Going outside.
But we're already outside.
Outside castle walls.
But the refugee camps are there,
and they're even more
dangerous than the slums!
I think it's about
time I saw them.
[HILDE] If you're going outside,
you'll be needing me.
So how long have you
been standing there?
[HILDE] I finished up
disinfecting the urchins.
And Brad disappeared somewhere.
That deadbeat is really
gonna get it for making me
cover his lectures again.
For sure this place is a dump,
but oddly enough,
there's a powerful look
in their eyes.
[SOUMA] They came a long
way from the north
with nothing but
the will to live.
It's safe to assume
that those who are here
are far stronger than
we could ever imagine.
They've experienced wars,
natural disasters,
and other misfortunes.
Yet somehow they still stand
on their own two feet.
Refugees have a unique
brand of strength.
Then again, that strength
can also be a hazard.
While their sense
of unity grows,
their sense of individuality
also becomes diluted.
By the way, Sou-- I mean,
Kazuya, you said you
had supported them.
What'd we do for them?
Really wasn't all that much.
We sent food, firewood,
and supplies
they desperately needed.
Also, I had the adventurers'
guild make security
around the camp a quest.
[LISCIA] I get supplying
them with essentials,
but why do they need
our protection?
[SOUMA] When foreign nationals
are victims of crimes
or the perpetrators,
it often leads to
international incidents.
But it's different
for these people,
who have no countries.
As long as it doesn't
become a global event,
people are often content
looking the other way.
Those sort of folk
need to be punished!
No.
There's also the possibility
that our own people
could harm the refugees.
[REFUGEE A]
Help!
What's all the commotion?
Look! Those thugs just
showed up out of nowhere
and tried kidnapping
all the children!
They tried what?
[REFUGEE B] They're attacking
anyone who jumps in
to stop them!
Those adventurers heard
about what was happening
and stepped in
to protect our camp!
Carla, Owen.
Go and help the
adventurers, fast.
As you command.
Let's show this scum
what valor looks like!
Come on!
Hilde, I want you to
go and help the priest
over there.
[HILDE] Oh, well, what
other choice is there?
And I'll stay and
protect you, Kazuya.
A hero who can't defend himself.
How sad.
Well that's why I'm here.
You can fight if needed, right?
Owen has been putting me
through all the paces,
but he says I'm only slightly
better than a fresh recruit.
Well that doesn't
sound too reassuring.
No matter what happens,
try and stay behind me.
I guess that's all I can do.
Duck, Juno!
Uh-oh.
Say goodbye to your head!
[SOUMA]
Keep calm. Stand your ground.
If I can make it
through his strike,
Juno can get back to her feet.
I just have to remember
the basic moves
that Owen drilled into me!
[SOUMA]
I did it! I actually did it!
A successful parry!
Don't just stand there!
Tell me, what were you thinking?
You can't be running
off like that!
[SOUMA]
I, um... I'm sorry.
I thought my heart was going
to stop, I was so worried!
If anything were to happen
to you, do you know
what would happen?
I would--
All right, pal! We've never met,
but you called me Juno.
So you wanna go ahead and tell
me how you know my name?
'Cause I... Well, you see...
Yeah, Kazuya.
You seem to be very
chummy with her.
[SOUMA] How do I explain
my way out of this mess?
Not like I can just
say the truth.
"Yeah, I'm the king and I've
been going on adventures
with you as Master Mascot."
[JUNO]
Hey, are listening to me?
Kazuya?
That was incredibly
reckless of you, Master.
[laughs]
I saw you in action.
Those sword skills I taught
you sure came in handy,
didn't they?
Ah! Both of you, nice work!
There's no way you're
changing the subject.
Hey! I'm still waiting
for an explanation!
So, got any idea who these
two punks are anyway?
Well?
Look. We were just hired
by some slave trader.
Slave trader? What for?
Because the king of
this country has gone
and made the slave
traders into civil servants.
Thing is, you need
to get qualified,
and our employer ended up
failing the review process.
[SOUMA] So why are you
attacking refugees?
To get out of this country.
Women and children
fetch a healthy price.
What'd you say?
Easy! Mercy!
We were told the refugees
were easy pickings
since the kingdom wouldn't
go out of their way
to give 'em protection.
And who told you that?
Uh, we were just hired
to do a job, man.
[MERCENARY B grunts]
[MERCENARY A grunts]
Carla, would you go and tell
Hakuya what happened out here?
Sure he'll take swift
measures to deal with this.
[CARLA]
Yes! As you command.
[HILDE] Well, I finished
treating the injured.
Don't know what the plan is.
We've managed to draw
quite a crowd here.
Crap! We're supposed
to be incognito!
[SOUMA] I told you,
don't raise your voice!
Ladies and gentlemen!
Your children were saved
from being kidnapped
all thanks to these
brave adventurers!
[CROWD chattering]
[REFUGEE A]
You saved our children!
[REFUGEE C]
Thank you so much!
Now's our chance to escape.
And very quietly.
Hey! Just wait the hell up!
We're not done!
[HILDE]
So, King, where to now?
[SOUMA]
To see the refugees' chief.
[LISCIA]
Why are we meeting with him?
There's a problem here.
And we're solving it.